# Enhancing Volunteer Interactions

## Case Study

At Grand River Hospital, a program called H.E.L.P. has been set up where volunteers can give company to elderly patients to help reduce the risk of delirium. Long-term hospitalized senior patients benefit greatly from interactions with volunteers. These visits offer much-needed emotional support and can serve as a form of social enrichment for patients, improving their mental well-being. However, hospital staff have identified a recurring issue: the volunteers, whose time is already stretched thin, are unable to truly connect with patients due to the limited time they have and the current reliance on outdated methods for patient information sharing.
Volunteers are tasked with visiting 5-7 patients during a typical 3-hour shift. Before each visit, they are given a pile of paper with basic information about the patients, such as names, ages, and medical conditions. Unfortunately, these sheets often fail to provide personal insights—like a patient’s preferred name, favorite food, or preferred TV show or even just some things they enjoy talking about—that can help volunteers form meaningful connections quickly. As a result, many volunteers feel unprepared to fully engage with the patients, while patients miss out on more personalized interactions.
Recognizing the need for a more efficient and meaningful solution, the hospital staff is seeking a technology-driven system that can securely store and provide volunteers with personalized, non-medical information about patients. The system should provide a quick, easy-to-use interface that allows volunteers to access relevant patient information at a glance, minimizing time spent preparing for each visit. The means to update the information should also be straightforward so that nurses or the patients’ family members can easily update it with the patients’ consent. Lastly, the system must maintain the privacy of all medical and personal data. Volunteers should only have access to non-sensitive, visit-related information, and patients should not have access to the volunteer’s system.
